# SmartKitchenTM
Hi there! This project was created as the final project of my second accelerated introductory computer science course: COMP1406Z. The entire developmental process, from conception to finalization occured in a time span of just over two weeks. The project is a virtual modelling of a kitchen, designed in part to streamline the experience of my family. The user can input items into their different kitchen storage areas (fridge,freezer,pantry) handle them accordingly (consume, donate, throw out, add to grocery list etc), create recipes, cook recipes if they have the ingredients, buy groceries after making their grocery lists and even view expiring items. For a detailed report about my experience and production process, see https://github.com/liquesylla/SmartKitchenTM/blob/main/MalicSylla_1406ProjectReport.pdf.  
There are a few details you should be aware of before going through my project. First, since it's a database at its core, you will need to input a lot of data to really see it perform and test all of its features. Fear not! I went ahead and made a demo kitchen called MalickKitchen.txt. You can load this database into the program by telling the console that this is the filename you wish to load. This brings me to my next point: look out for the console!! The program won’t run unless you have entered input. The program makes use of keys and buttons, some are subtle so be sure to look in the Settings-> Instructions  menu to find instructions about the different features. You can make your own Kitchen and save it too when you’re done!. A heads up, two features are unavailable depending on what you select. Only NonPerishables can be donated, and only products can be added to the grocery list.
